well howdy there internet people is Bo
again since we are closing in on
Thanksgiving I figure it's a good time
to tell a native story I'm not gonna
take the story of Thanksgiving pilgrims
John Smith none today you know all that
stuff I'm gonna tell you a different one
I'm gonna tell you the story of a girl
named Madawaska so when she's 10 or 12
years old she meets this English
explorer and she learns English it's
cool because they actually found the
guys notes and there's like stories and
and like you can tell they were doing
like writing exercises and stuff mmm
neat little thing anyway so because she
learned English she's the one that goes
to the fort and she trades and bring
supplies and that kind of stuff
her dad was pretty powerful native so to
keep him in check the colonists
kidnapped her and they held her hostage
for a very long time so long in fact
that when she was a little bit older
talking mid to late teens one of the
colonists kind of took a liking to her
and in order to get out of being held
hostage she was forced into marrying him
and then he took her back to England
kind of paraded her around as like an
advertisement see look the colonies
aren't that bad here's a civilized
savage and uh anyway she died 19 or 21
somewhere in there one theory says that
she just outlived her usefulness so he
poisoned her another version says that
she contracted some disease either way
there was definitely no happily ever
after in this story not like Pocahontas
that is actually the story of Pocahontas
the real story some of its debated but
that that's the real story matter akka
was her real name Pocahontas it means
like rebellious child
you know that famous scene of her saving
John Smith's life you know in the
painting she's like this beautiful adult
native girl bare-breasted
you know covering him up so her dad
doesn't kill him that probably never
happened
it certainly didn't happen because you
know they were romantically involved or
well let's hope not because she was 10
or 12 most of what you know of native
stories is false it's completely false
completely made-up
and when you think about it when you
take what actually happened
you know a girl was kidnapped held
hostage forced into marriage which means
raped and then died an early death all
of a sudden the fact that that got
turned into a love story it makes sense
when they didn't alike don't wear that
as a Halloween costume
but that's what happens to every native
story there's two story lines in popular
culture when it comes to natives there's
the goodnight if the understanding
native who understands that white people
are there you know to be their saviors
and to civilize them who buddies up to
them and somehow that relationship saves
the tribe or somebody leaves the tribe
or the res doesn't become civilized and
then comes back and saves everybody
there's not a whole lot of stories about
natives just being native there's always
that interjection of the white Savior my
favorite version of the one guy who
leaves and then comes back is the one
where I can't remember the name of movie
now but the guy and he leaves becomes an
FBI agent and he comes back and it's at
a reservation that is clearly meant to
be Pine Ridge and
and he's the hero he saves the day and
it's funny you ever talked to a native
activist and asked them how the FBI
treats them especially one from Pine
Ridge you're probably gonna get a
different story
you'd ask Leonard Peltier how he feels
about it but you're gonna have to write
him at Coleman prison it's a federal
prison I couldn't the FBI put him there
he's been there a couple decades for
something it's pretty clear he probably
didn't do at least not to the extent
they're saying anyway it's it's this
holiday is one of those holidays it's a
good time to bring it up and just kind
of remember that most of what you know
of native culture native myths native
stories is pretty much completely
fabricated not a whole lot of it's true
in popular culture anyway y'all have a
nice night it's just a thought